[Music]
okay picture this you're exhausted after
a long workday and the only thing you
can dream about is throwing yourself on
the bed and blacking out hmm
not gonna happen instead you're tossing
and turning trying to find the most
comfortable position your mind gets
plagued with endless thoughts and even
though you're worn out sleep keeps
eluding you how come well the reason
might be very simple your seemingly
innocent bedtime habits number one
drinking water but wait then why do they
keep saying drink more water
it'll make you healthy well that's true
your body needs to stay hydrated during
the day but stop watering at one hour
before you hit the sack otherwise you'll
be bound to make one or even a couple of
trips to the bathroom which will rudely
interrupt your sleep on top of that most
people find it hard to fall back asleep
after they get up in the middle of the
night to bright alarm clock you avoid
gimmicky alarm clocks that shine bright
like a diamond in the sky
oh boy to wake you up an alarm clock
needs to be loud not bright cutting-edge
illuminating alarm clocks look fancy and
decorate to room but their light is
harmful to your sleep your brain needs
darkness to reboot completely that's why
you should offer regular simple alarm
clocks three eating heavily before sleep
there's hardly a person who doesn't know
that eating a lot before going to bed
can cause nightmares but actually it's
not only about the size of the meals but
also the time when you have them by
eating heavy food for dinner you
encourage your brain to be more active
that's why at
you can lead the vivid nightmares
besides a hearty dinner disrupts your
digestive system leads to weight gain
and causes problems with your stomach on
the other hand it's also a bad idea to
eat right before going to bed even if
your dinner is light your body will
still struggle to digest whatever you
fed it try not to eat anything two to
three hours before bedtime and if the
gnawing feeling of hunger doesn't let
you fall asleep choose to eat fruit for
exercising just like drinking water
exercising is a healthy and effective
way to keep your body fit but not before
going to bed
quite the opposite any rigorous physical
activity late at night will negatively
affect your sleep try to exercise at
least four hours before going to bed and
if you need to relieve stress after a
work day opt for a short stroll rather
than running on a treadmill or going for
a long evening walk 5 playing with
gadgets cut down on your screen time
before falling asleep
not only do gadgets over stimulate your
brain making it Restless but their
screens also emit that infamous blue
light this light suppresses your body's
sleep hormone melatonin and alters your
internal clock as a result your brain
doesn't believe it's time to go to bed
hello insomnia to avoid this problem you
can wear special glasses that block blue
light or choose a special night mode on
your devices but the best solution is to
power down all handheld screens an hour
before going to bed 6 napping
napping is an entirely normal
and often healthy routine but if your
naps are regular and lasts longer than
half an hour they can mess up your sleep
at night statistically people who like
having naps during the day often have
sleep disorders like sleep apnea and
insomnia so unless you need it really
bad
avoid napping in the afternoon and if
you do don't make it longer than 10
minutes this is enough time for your
body to recharge number 7 uncomfortable
mattress who by buying a good
high-quality mattress you literally
invest in your bright and healthy future
right
such mattresses usually cost a fortune
but when in an attempt to save money you
rest on a sloppy mattress you do
yourself more harm than good an
uncomfortable mattress doesn't let you
sleep tight which makes you irritated
and grumpy and causes all kinds of back
and neck pains number 8
using sleep aids thousands of people
deal with stress and insomnia with the
help of over-the-counter sleep aids
however there are several reasons why
it's not the best idea first of all your
body will most likely develop a
tolerance to sleep medications and
pretty soon they won't have any effect
on you secondly the day after you'll
feel tired and sluggish which won't
benefit your productivity and finally
after a sleeping pill the quality of
your sleep will be much worse than it
would have been if you'd fallen to sleep
naturally number 9 reading books ah I
see this one is a shocker isn't it
I hear both readers and book addicts
argue that reading is a healthy habit
and all spheres of your life benefit
from it I can't argue with that if you
don't mean reading as a bedtime habit it
turns out that reading excites your mind
as much as watching a movie or playing a
mobile game does if the book you're
reading is interesting it's next to
impossible to put it aside
you're more likely to keep reading until
you finish it at the expense of healthy
rest on the other hand I guess
everything depends on how engrossing the
book is number 10 not having a sleep
routine now when it comes to sleep it's
crucial to have a routine and even more
importantly stick to it keep in mind
that you're supposed to not only go to
bed but also to wake up at the same
times every day the sad truth is that
when you have an erratic sleep schedule
it can confuse your internal clock and
lead to sleep disorders at first it may
be challenging to lull yourself to sleep
right after you burrow under the covers
but as long as you stick to your sleep
schedule it'll get easier and easier to
black out number 11 wrong sleep position
you might be waking up with a sore back
red eyes and a painful neck just because
you haven't found the proper sleeping
position yet by the way
experts recommend not sleeping on your
stomach because it turns out to be too
taxing on your neck and back leading to
poor sleep and the feeling of discomfort
during the day and the best sleeping
positions are on your back with a small
pillow supporting your knees on your
side with a pillow between your knees
and in the fetal position 12 thinking
about work the majority of people can
avoid thinking about work-related
problems to-do lists and bills to pay
before falling asleep
unfortunately these thoughts usually
cause anxiety which makes the quality of
sleep way worse I all means avoid stress
at bedtime by concentrating on pleasant
thoughts and dealing with work-related
concerns
earlier in the day 13 getting cold
imagine waking up in the middle of the
night because your feet feel like two
blocks of ice rather than human
appendages when it happens to me I find
it extremely hard to warm my feet up and
fall asleep again
so if your feet tend to get cold at
nighttime remember to put a pair of warm
socks on before going to bed
alternatively you can use heating pants
or do what I did stick your feet under
your dog yep he's up there with me 14
drinking coffee and last but not least
do not drink coffee after 7:00 p.m. I
agree it may sound a bit too obvious but
then you tell yourself that one tiny cup
of espresso won't hurt and there are
goats
unfortunately sleeping coffee never go
hand in hand this drink is a powerful
stimulant and will keep you energized no
matter what even if you manage to fall
asleep your sleep won't be as deep and
restful as usual some specialists go as
far as to recommend not drinking coffee
after lunch sleep is extremely important
for your body it helps to restore energy
boosts your immune system fights off
depression and decreases the risk of
stroke and heart disease lack of proper
sleep leads to daytime sleepiness
inability to concentrate irritation
stress and even high blood pressure and
if your insomnia drags on you can't get
physically or mentally ill so try to
avoid doing the things mentioned in this
video before going to bed and you'll
feel way more rested and energetic in
the morning and during the next day how
about you do you have any tricks to get
yourself ready for bed share them with
me down in the comments if you learned
something new today then give this video
a like and share it with a friend but
hey don't go nodding off just yet we
have over 2,000 cool videos for you to
check out all you have to do is pick the
left or right video click on it and
enjoy remain
stay on the bright side of life